Added a `Receive` page to `Daily Spending Wallet` (#878)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/daily-spending-wallet/receiving.md

---
layout: guide
title: Receiving bitcoin
description: How receiving works for a daily spending bitcoin wallet.

> nav_order: 2

Reviewer: I think this page should go after "Requesting bitcoin". Flows better, especially as the content begins with "Once a user has shared a payment request", which is explained on the requesting page.

Author: Completely agree, I was going to bring this up and do it in a separate PR. I think the below order makes the most logical sense as its the order of operations the user will likely (and what we recommend) will take.

First use -> Requesting -> Receiving -> Backup & recovery -> sending bitcoin

Thoughts @sbddesign ?

parent: Daily spending wallet
permalink: /guide/daily-spending-wallet/receiving/
image: /assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/requesting/request-banner-preview(1200x630).jpg
image_base: /assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/receiving/
redirect_from:
 - /guide/payments/receive/

>  - /guide/daily-spending-wallet/funding/

Reviewer: Should the funding page redirect here? Not really the same content...

Author: Redirecting to first use is probably more relevant, what do you think?

 - /guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/
main_classes: -no-top-padding
---

{% include picture.html
    image = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/requesting/request-banner(1600x600).png"
    retina = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/requesting/request-banner(3200x1200).png"
    mobile = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/requesting/request-banner(400x200).png"
    mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/requesting/request-banner(800x400).png"

>     alt-text = "Image: Text balloon containing a bitcoin."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    alt-text = "Text balloon containing a bitcoin."
```

    width = 1600
    height = 600
    layout = "full-width"
%}

<!--

Illustration source

- https://www.figma.com/file/qr4P17z6WSPADm6oW0cKw2/Design-Guide-Bosch?node-id=201%3A687

-->

# Receiving bitcoin

> Once a user has shared a payment request, the next step is receiving the payment. Ideally, there is little to no actions for a user to take at this stage of the payment flow. 

Reviewer: `payment request` could link to the requesting page. If someone lands on this page directly, they may want to read up on that context.

> Once a user has shared a payment request, the next step is receiving the payment. Ideally, there is little to no actions for a user to take at this stage of the payment flow. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a user has shared a payment request, the next step is receiving the payment. Ideally, there are little to no actions to take at this stage of the payment flow. 
```

> There are however several things to consider as a product designer to make this step as frictionless as possible. For instance, users need to be online and have a payment channel with inbound liquidity to receive a payment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are, however, several things to consider as a product designer to make this step as frictionless as possible. For instance, users need to be online and have a payment channel with inbound liquidity to receive a payment. 
```
Could also link to inbound liquidity for context.

> This page covers how to design with these constraints in mind, as well as give an overview of how receiving a payment works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page covers how to design with these constraints in mind, and gives an overview of how receiving a payment works.
```

## Receiving offline

> Users can not receive lightning payments non-custodially offline. This is problematic for mobile users who are regularly offline. This means there will be times when a payment can not be received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can not receive lightning payments in a non-custodial manner when offline. This is problematic for mobile users who are regularly offline. This means there will be times when a payment can not be received.
```

> With a [lightning wallet server]({{ '/guide/how-it-works/lightning-services/#receive-payments-offline' | relative_url }}) a payment can be intercepted and held for a user until they open their wallet. A push notification can be sent to the user so they can open their wallet and receive the payment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With a [lightning wallet server]({{ '/guide/how-it-works/lightning-services/#receive-payments-offline' | relative_url }}), a payment can be intercepted and held for a user until they open their wallet. A push notification can be sent to the user so they can open their wallet and receive the payment. 
```

Another option is to educate users to keep their wallet open. This can be explained during [first use]({{ '/guide/daily-spending-wallet/first-use/' | relative_url }}) or when the user attempts to close their wallet.

<div class="image-slide-gallery">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/receiving/ReceiveOfflineNotification.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/receiving/ReceiveOfflineNotification@2x.png"
   modalImage = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/receiving/ReceiveOfflineNotification@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Notify the user that they have a payment incoming and that they should open their app to receive it."
   alt-text = "Screen showing a notification that is asking the user to open their wallet so they can receive their payment."
   width = 250
   height = 541
   modalWidth = 250
   modalHeight = 541
%}

{% include picture.html

>    image = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/receiving/CloseWalletNotification.png"

Reviewer: This makes it sound like I can never close the app ever...? How about only showing this prompt right after the user has created an invoice until it has either been paid or some time of timeout?

Author: Good point, will include a note on this on the requesting page too

Author: Added to requesting page and removed notification modal image from this page.

   retina = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/receiving/CloseWalletNotification@2x.png"
   modalImage = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/receiving/CloseWalletNotification@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Notify the user that closing the app could mean that payments can not be received."
   alt-text = "Screen showing a notification that is asking the user if they want to close their app as it could mean that payments can not be received."
   width = 250
   height = 541
   modalWidth = 250
   modalHeight = 541
%}

</div>

## Receiving lightning payments 

Once the user is online, a payment channel with [inbound liquidity]({{ '/guide/how-it-works/liquidity/'| relative_url }}) is also required to receive the payment. If the user already has a payment channel with enough inbound liquidity the payment will be [received]({{ '/guide/daily-spending-wallet/receiving/#received-payment'| relative_url }}).

> If the user does not have a channel open, or one with enough inbound liquidity, a new channel needs to be opened. Any additional fees required to open a channel needs to be communicated to users when [creating a payment request]({{ '/guide/daily-spending-wallet/requesting/'| relative_url }}) before they share it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the user does not have a channel open, or one with enough inbound liquidity, a new channel needs to be opened. Any additional fees required to open a channel need to be communicated to users when [creating a payment request]({{ '/guide/daily-spending-wallet/requesting/'| relative_url }}), and before they share it.
```

> Channel opens should be done by a lightning service provider (LSP). Channels should be opened [on-demand]({{ '/guide/how-it-works/lightning-services/#on-demand-liquidity'| relative_url }}) and use [zero-confirmation]({{ '/guide/how-it-works/lightning-services/#zero-confirmation'| relative_url }}) so users can receive and spend their bitcoin instantly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Channel opens should be done by a lightning service provider (LSP). Channels should be opened [on-demand]({{ '/guide/how-it-works/lightning-services/#on-demand-liquidity'| relative_url }}) and require [zero confirmations]({{ '/guide/how-it-works/lightning-services/#zero-confirmation'| relative_url }}) so users can receive and spend their bitcoin instantly.
```

## Receiving on-chain payments

> To receive on-chain payments and maintain a single lightning balance a [lightning wallet server (LWS)]({{ '/guide/how-it-works/lightning-services/#what-are-lightning-wallet-servers'| relative_url }}) is required to conduct [submarine swaps](https://blog.muun.com/a-closer-look-at-submarine-swaps-in-the-lightning-network/) on the users behalf. Submarine swaps move bitcoin between on-chain and lightning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To receive on-chain payments and maintain a single lightning balance a [lightning wallet server (LWS)]({{ '/guide/how-it-works/lightning-services/#what-are-lightning-wallet-servers'| relative_url }}) is required to conduct [submarine swaps](https://blog.muun.com/a-closer-look-at-submarine-swaps-in-the-lightning-network/) on the users behalf. Submarine swaps move bitcoin between the bitcoin and lightning networks.
```

{% include tip/open.html color="blue" icon="info" label="Experimental options" %}

Experimental options such as [Peerswap](https://www.peerswap.dev/) and [Collaborative funding](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/dual-funding/) may be more trustless options that could be used to receive on-chain payments whilst maintaining a single lightning balance.

{% include tip/close.html %}

### Refunds

> There may be scenarios where a submarine swap is not completed successfully such as the LWS being offline. In these cases the users will need to temporarily have a refunded on-chain balance of which they can claim to an on-chain address they control. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There may be scenarios where a submarine swap is not completed successfully, such as when the lightning service provider is offline. In these cases, the users will need to temporarily have a refunded on-chain balance which they can claim to an on-chain address they control. 
```

Reviewer: `the users will need to temporarily have a refunded on-chain balance` doesn't read smoothly. What does it mean to temporarily have a balance?

Author: Its only there to be claimed, I will re-phrase. The LWS not an LSP does the swaps fyi

> It's recommended to keep this separate from the users main lightning balance in order to prevent confusion. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's recommended to keep this separate from the users main lightning balance, in order to prevent confusion. 
```

   modalHeight = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/receiving/RefundActivity.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/receiving/RefundActivity@2x.png"
   modalImage = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/receiving/RefundActivity@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "The activity page is another place where you can indicate to a user that they need to claim their refund."
   alt-text = "Screen showing the activity menu with an entry for the user to claim their refunded payment."
   width = 250
   height = 541
   modalWidth = 250
   modalHeight = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/receiving/ClaimRefund.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/receiving/ClaimRefund@2x.png"
   modalImage = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/receiving/ClaimRefund@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Make it simple for a user to claim their refund."
   alt-text = "Screen showing a form to claim the refund to an on-chain address."
   width = 250
   height = 541
   modalWidth = 250
   modalHeight = 541
%}

</div>

## Received payment

> Once a payment is received it should be clearly indicated to the user and their balance should be updated. Ensure fees charged, if any, are clear to the user when viewing the payments details. More information on presenting payment history on our [activity]({{ '/guide/daily-spending-wallet/activity/'| relative_url }}) page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a payment is received it should be clearly indicated to the user and their balance should be updated. Ensure fees charged, if any, are clear to the user when viewing the payments details. Find more information on presenting a payment history on our [activity]({{ '/guide/daily-spending-wallet/activity/'| relative_url }}) page. 
```

> The option to share a receipt that the payment has been received with the sender should be available and easily shared.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The option to save and share a receipt should be readily available.
```
Wouldn't the sender automatically know that it's been received? Saving receipts can also be used for other purposes, like tax accounting.

Author: Not necessarily, maybe the sender needs the receipt for tax purposes and it could also be shared as extra assurance the payment was received.

<div class="image-slide-gallery">

{% include picture.html

>    image = "/assets/images/guide/daily-spending-wallet/requesting/received.png"

Reviewer: I think these two success screens could go at the very top. That way we show the happy path, and then go deeper into the behind the scenes and potential problems.

Author: Will have a think about that some more
